TITLE: Materials Modelling and Simulation

DESCRIPTION:

Due to the steady increase in computational power and the development of advanced simulation methods, computational 
modelling has become an almost indispensible tool in the analysis and developemnt of new materials.  This module 
will introduce students to a range of theoretical and computational techniques used in the modelling and simulation
of materials.  It starts by refresing and consolidating the students' programming skills, then reviews the important 
concepts in classical mechanics and statistical mechanics.  The core topics of this module are: classical force fields and 
molecular dynamics.  Within the module there is a hands-on component that involves writing a simple molecular dynamics package 
and a final assignment that involves reviewing a paper from the literature on simulation.

LEARNINGOUTCOMES:

- You should be able to write out Newton's laws of motion and explain how molecular dynamics algorithms work by making reference to these laws. 

- You should be able to explain the interactions between atoms are described using quantum mechanics and classical forcefields and should be able to explain the strengths and the limitations for each of these ways of modelling the interactions.

- You should be able to explain what we mean by the term canonical ensemble and should also be able to explain how ensemble averages are calculated from molecular dynamics simulations.  You should then be able to explain how we can connect the results of simulations with those from experiments by calculating ensemble averages.

- You should be able to read articles from the simulation literature and reflect critically on the strengths and the limitations of the methods used within them.

NWEEKS: 4

WEEK1: NEWTONS_LAWS DEFINITION_OF_DERIVATIVE
WEEK2: CHAIN_RULE PRODUCT_RULE INTERATOMIC_FORCES LAGRANGE_MULTIPLIERS
WEEK3: INFORMATION_THEORY GENERALIZED_PARTITION_FUNCTION CANONICAL_ENSEMBLE
WEEK4: MONTE_CARLO MOLECULAR_DYNAMICS

END:
